functions (#8)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-unit-3: functions/callback-functions.md

# Callback Functions

## Goal

One of the ways we'll solve problems in JavaScript is using callback functions. Getting the hang of callback functions takes practice.

The goal of this lesson is to introduce callback functions, so we can use this vocabulary as we see functions passed around as arguments in the future.

## Another Way to Look at Functions

We might have been in situations before where we thought, "Ugh! This logic is reusable. The only thing that needs to change is one piece of behavior." If we've ever thought, "If only we could take in behavior as an argument," we're in luck!

For example, let's imagine this problem and pseudocode:

> We need to build one calculator function that can add, subtract, multiply, and divide two numbers.

Reviewer: the first part here uses calculator, but later it switches to calculate, so switch the occurrences here to match.
```suggestion
We need to build a `calculate` function that can add, subtract, multiply, and divide two numbers.
```

In order to accomplish that goal, we need three arguments:

1. The first number
2. The second number

> 3. Something that represents to operation we need, to help us determine if we're adding, subtracting, multiplying, or dividing

Reviewer: to → the
use whether when considering the state of a condition
```suggestion
3. Something that represents the operation we need, to help us determine whether we're adding, subtracting, multiplying, or dividing
```

> We could approach the third argument by expecting a string, such as `'add'`, `'+'`, `'multiply'`, or `'*'`.

Reviewer: Be a bit more explicit about our decision and how it might be handled
```suggestion
We could decide that the third argument will expect a string, such as `'add'`, `'+'`, `'multiply'`, or `'*'`. Our `calculate` function could inspect the string and decide which behavior to apply.
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```js

> const calculator = function(a, b, operation){
>   // if (operation === 'add') {
>   //  return a + b;
>   // }
> }

Reviewer: rename and uncomment the approach
```suggestion
const calculate = function(a, b, operation){
  if (operation === 'add') {
   return a + b;
  } else if ...  // additional checks
}
```

```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

> However, wouldn't it be grand if we could _pass in_ the actual operation, whether it's addition or subtraction, and execute it?

Reviewer: I love the way this is expressed. It _would_ be grand! 😄 
Hint at the flexibility this approach could open for us.
```suggestion
However, wouldn't it be grand if we could _pass in_ the actual operation, whether it's addition, subtraction, or even some operation we haven't yet planned to support, and then execute it?
```

## Callback Functions

In order to pass around behavior, we pass around functions.

> More specifically, a function can _take in a function_ as an _argument_, and then call that function.

Reviewer: mention these are references
```suggestion
More specifically, a function can _take in a reference to a function_ as an _argument_, and then call that function.
```

> To help us talk about functions, we can use specific vocabulary around these functions. A **callback function** is a nickname for a function that is _passed into_ another function.
> 
> We can reverse that definition and imagine a function that _takes in another function as an argument_. The function passed in as an argument can be labeled as a _callback function_.

Reviewer: Consider paring this back. Having the bouncing back and forth between perspectives feels simultaneously redundant and confusing to me.
```suggestion
A **callback function** is a term for a function that is _passed into_ another function.
```

### Passing Around Cleaning Up Behavior

> Let's dive into an example! Let's define these two functions, `cleanKitchen` and `bakeCake`.

Reviewer: name consistency
```suggestion
Let's dive into an example! Let's define these two functions, `cleanCountertop` and `bakeCake`.
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```js
const cleanCountertop = function () {
  console.log('I\'m cleanin\' my counters now! Scrubba scrub scrub.');
}

const bakeCake = function () {

>   console.log('Make the batter...');
>   console.log('Put it in the oven...');

Reviewer: I think this would be more compelling if the "algorithm" we were customizing was set up such that we couldn't just call the clean function at the end of the baking function.

If we frame this as wanting to do something else in the middle of the baking steps, this helps avoid the question of why we couldn't just clean up at the end.

```suggestion
  console.log('Make the batter...');
  console.log('Put it in the oven...');
  // waiting for the cake to bake
  console.log('Take it out...');
  console.log('Om nom nom!!!');
```

}

bakeCake();
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

> The variable `cleanCountertop` references a function that prints details about cleaning a kitchen.

Reviewer: explanation consistency
```suggestion
The variable `cleanCountertop` references a function that prints details about cleaning our countertop.
```

The variable `bakeCake` references a different function that prints details about baking a cake.

> When we bake a cake, maybe there's always cleanup behavior that we want to call, whether it's cleaning our counters, sink, or stove-top.

Reviewer: Update this description to reflect the additional motivation I mentioned before: customizing an algorithm mid-step.

Of course there are plenty of places in JS use that we _will_ provide a continuation function that runs at the end (especially after async stuff) but since we can't really see that here, I think this is a little more compelling.

```suggestion
As part of baking a cake, we need to wait while the cake is in the oven. Let's assume we always want to perform some kind of cleanup behavior while we're waiting, whether it's cleaning our counters, sink, or stove-top.

We can't just call our `cleanCountertop` before we start baking the cake, or after we're done baking the cake. We want to do it in the middle, while the cake is in the oven!
```

We can _change the function signature_ of `bakeCake` to accept an argument, `cleanupBehavior`. Inside our `bakeCake` function, we can take that argument and _invoke_ whatever function it references, by attaching `()` to it.

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```js
const bakeCake = function (cleanupBehavior) {

>   console.log('Make the batter...');
>   console.log('Put it in the oven...');
>   cleanupBehavior();

Reviewer: the same body change
```suggestion
  console.log('Make the batter...');
  console.log('Put it in the oven...');
  cleanupBehavior();
  console.log('Take it out...');
  console.log('Om nom nom!!!');
```

}
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

> We can refer to `cleanupBehavior` as a _callback function_ inside our `bakeCake` function. After we look at the big picture, we can think about the phrase "callback."

Reviewer: It seems unnecessary to put such a big focus on the little bit of discussion remaining about the term callback. As long as we are following a natural narrative flow, I think it's fine to get there when we get there.
```suggestion
We can refer to `cleanupBehavior` as a _callback function_ inside our `bakeCake` function.
```

> 

Reviewer: It seems like a good idea to remind the reader that all this stuff we're doing with passing functions around isn't going to be check by JS, and that good naming can help us communicate intent as well as remind ourselves of our intention.

Includes a brief line to transition back into the explanation.

```suggestion

### !callout-info

## Use Good Parameter Names

Like any other parameter, JavaScript doesn't know what we expect to do with that parameter, and so it won't force the value passed in for `cleanupBehavior` to be a function reference. Good naming should be used to inform anyone using our function what we expect to be passed in, and to remind us of how we intend to use that parameter within our function.

### !end-callout

We might call `bakeCake` as follows:

```

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```js
const cleanCountertop = function () {
  console.log('I\'m cleanin\' my counters now! Scrubba scrub scrub.');
}

const bakeCake = function (cleanupBehavior) {

>   console.log('Make the batter...');
>   console.log('Put it in the oven...');
>   cleanupBehavior();

Reviewer: same updated body
```suggestion
  console.log('Make the batter...');
  console.log('Put it in the oven...');
  cleanupBehavior();
  console.log('Take it out...');
  console.log('Om nom nom!!!');
```

}

bakeCake(cleanCountertop);
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

When we ultimately _invoke_ the `bakeCake` function with `bakeCake()`, we need to pass in an argument.

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```js
bakeCake(cleanCountertop);
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

> 

Reviewer: Include a log of the output.
Actual output markdown in following comment.
Be careful to follow the log with a blank line (can't add it in the comment)
Not part of this suggestion because code.
```suggestion

This would produce the following output:

```

Reviewer: ```
Make the batter...
Put it in the oven...
I'm cleanin' my counters now! Scrubba scrub scrub.
Take it out...
Om nom nom!!!
```

> We're passing in `cleanCountertop`, the variable that refers to our cleaning function. We're specifically _not_ invoking the function. If we were _invoking_ it, we would use `cleanCountertop()`.

Reviewer: Since I suggested a log of the output, talking about the call in the past tense sounds a bit more natural.
Split the discussion of parens/no parens into its own passage so that it can get a bit more focus.

```suggestion
We passed in the value of `cleanCountertop`, the variable that refers to our cleaning function. We specifically _did not_ invoke the function, so we left off any parentheses `()`.

If we had used `cleanCountertop()`, this would execute the function, and be evaluated to its return value. This return value is what would get passed into the call to `bakeCake`, rather than the function reference stored in `cleanCountertop`.
```

> Reviewing our `bakeCake` function, we can see that we invoke our `cleanupBehavior` function with `cleanupBehavior()`, without knowing if it's cleaning the countertop, cleaning the sink, cleaning the stove-top, or cleaning the bathroom!

Reviewer: reword so that our lack of knowledge about the details isn't simply ignorance, it's a benefit of the design!
```suggestion
Reviewing our `bakeCake` function, we can see that we invoke our `cleanupBehavior` function with `cleanupBehavior()`, without needing to know whether it's cleaning the countertop, cleaning the sink, cleaning the stove-top, or even cleaning the bathroom!
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```js
const bakeCake = function (cleanupBehavior) {

>   console.log('Make the batter...');
>   console.log('Put it in the oven...');
>   cleanupBehavior();

Reviewer: same body update
```suggestion
  console.log('Make the batter...');
  console.log('Put it in the oven...');
  cleanupBehavior();
  console.log('Take it out...');
  console.log('Om nom nom!!!');
```

}
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

> We call `cleanupBehavior` a _callback function_ inside `bakeCake`. It refers to the expectation that `bakeCake` should _call back_ a function... the function that was passed in, when `bakeCake` was invoked in the first place.

Reviewer: call back _to_ a function. Just calling back a function sounds odd to me (different from calling back someone on the phone)
```suggestion
We call `cleanupBehavior` a _callback function_ inside `bakeCake`. It refers to the expectation that `bakeCake` should _call back_ to some other function... the function that was passed in when `bakeCake` was invoked in the first place.
```

> ## Revisiting Calculator
> 
> Let's consider how we can build our calculator function using callbacks. This process will be very similar to our `bakeCake` example, but we'll be mindful about how arguments are passed in.

Reviewer: name consistency
expand what mindfulness about the arguments looks like

```suggestion
## Revisiting Calculate

Let's consider how we can build our `calculate` function using callbacks. This process will be very similar to our `bakeCake` example, but we should remember that we are expecting to pass arguments to the operator functions. We'll need to mindful about defining our operator functions to accept parameters, and we'll need to pass arguments within `calculate`.
```

Consider this code:

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```js
const multiply = function (factor_a, factor_b) {
  console.log('Now we\'re in multiply~~');
  return factor_a * factor_b;
}

> 

Reviewer: include another operation to help sell the extensibility
```suggestion

const add = function (addend_a, addend_b) {
  console.log('Now we\'re in add~~');
  return addend_a + addend_b;
}

```

const calculate = function (a, b, operate) {
  console.log('We\'re inside the calculate function!');
  return operate(a, b);
}

> const result = calculate(7, 6, multiply);
> console.log('Our final result from calculate is:', result);

Reviewer: call with both multiply and add
rename the const vars as a result of two calls
```suggestion
const multiply_result = calculate(7, 6, multiply);
console.log('Our final result from calculate is:', multiply_result);

const add_result = calculate(7, 6, add);
console.log('Our final result from calculate is:', add_result);
```

Reviewer: We could consider doing this in a loop, which I find a little more compelling and would challenge the reader to do some research about for/of. But it would require some rework to the following passages.

```js
for (const operator of [multiply, add]) {
  const result = calculate(7, 6, operator);
  console.log('Our final result from calculate is:', result);
}
```

```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

After running this code, we'll see this output:

```

> We're inside the calculate function!
> Now we're in multiply~~
> Our final result from calculate is: 42

Reviewer: include output from add call
```suggestion
We're inside the calculate function!
Now we're in multiply~~
Our final result from calculate is: 42
We're inside the calculate function!
Now we're in add~~
Our final result from calculate is: 13
```

```

### Practice Tracing Code

> Let's practice tracing code, going through it and following the flow of execution. The first several lines of this snippet define functions. Our first moment of action is the line `const result = calculate(7, 6, multiply);`.

Reviewer: split the setup (we're going to trace!) from the content (now we're tracing!)
"moment of action" is a bit vague, so explicitly say what we're interested in here: a line that does more than simply define functions
rename to reflect changes to the code
```suggestion
Let's practice tracing code, going through it and following the flow of execution.

The first several lines of this snippet define functions. Our first line of code that does more than defining a function is `const multiply_result = calculate(7, 6, multiply);`.
```

> We invoke our `calculate` function when we call it with parentheses `()`, in the expression `calculate(7, 6, multiply)`. Here, we're passing in the `multiply` function, without invoking it.

Reviewer: "when we call it" is a slightly ambiguous time phrase
```suggestion
We invoke our `calculate` function by calling it with parentheses `()`, in the expression `calculate(7, 6, multiply)`. Here, we're passing in the `multiply` function, without invoking it.
```

When we enter our `calculate` function, we have these values:

> | Local variable | Value      |

Reviewer: try for more even layout
```suggestion
| Local variable | <div style="min-width:130px;">Value</div>      |
```

| -------------- | ---------- |
| `a`            | `7`        |
| `b`            | `6`        |
| `operate`      | `multiply` |

> Our `calculate` function eventually invokes `operate` with the expression `operate(a, b)`. When we run `operate(a, b)`, we're invoking the `multiply` function with those arguments.

Reviewer: consider including a very explicit line about how `operate` and `multiply` both refer to the same function.
```suggestion
Our `calculate` function eventually invokes `operate` with the expression `operate(a, b)`. When we run `operate(a, b)`, we're invoking the `multiply` function with those arguments. `operate` is a variable that currently holds the same function reference as `multiply`, so when we invoke `operate`, it's the same as invoking `multiply`.
```

Inside the `multiply` function, we have these values:

> | Local variable | Value |

Reviewer: try for more even layout
```suggestion
| Local variable | <div style="min-width:130px;">Value</div>      |
```

| -------------- | ----- |
| `factor_a`     | `7`   |
| `factor_b`     | `6`   |

Ultimately, our `multiply` function returns `42`...

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```js
return factor_a * factor_b; // 42
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

Which in turn, after we get back to our `calculate` function...

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```js
return operate(a, b); // 42
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

Returns `42` itself.

This comes all the way back to our line where we originally started all of this!

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```js

> const result = calculate(7, 6, multiply);

Reviewer: fix name to match suggested change
```suggestion
const multiply_result = calculate(7, 6, multiply);
```

```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

> We finally get a value for our variable `result`, which is `42`.

Reviewer: fix name to match suggested change
```suggestion
We finally get a value for our variable `multiply_result`, which is `42`.
```

### !callout-info

> ## Compare to Python
> 
> Python actually supports passing around functions, too! Python uses _lambdas_ as a popular pattern for passing around functions.

Reviewer: I'd leave off the Python comparison, especially to the Python `lambda` keyword. `lambda` might be reasonable to reference in a discussion of anonymous functions, but it's really limited in terms of what it can do. To be as flexible as functions being passed around in JS, it's generally more effective to use named functions in Python. Since I'm assuming we don't want to go into all of this right here, that's why I suggest cutting it.

BUT! We could still end off with a callout that encourages the reader to trace through the `add` scenario.
```suggestion
## Let's Trace the Second Call on Our Own

Our example goes on to call `calculate` with the `add` function. We should trace through this call as well to practice thinking about callbacks!
```
